:: 1203-01-0X ::
set: unordered collection of objects
Roster Notation
Set-Builder Notation
Sets can be elements of other sets.
The empty set is NOT equal to to a set containing the empty set.
A = B iff for all x, all x taken from A == all x taken from B.
"Proper Subset": if A is a subset of B, but A != B, A is a Proper Subset of B.
"Power Set": The set of all subsets of  a set A is the power set of A. If a set has n elements, the cardinality of the power set is 2^n.
Tuple.
Ordered n-tuple.
2-tuples are called ordered pairs.
Cartesian Product (Cross Product)
logical conjuction symbol looks like an "A" for "and"
union symbol looks like a "U"
Relations: A subset R of A cartesian-product B is called a relation...
"Set Operations": Things to do to sets to get new sets.
"Union"
"Intersection"
"Complement": Complement of A is all x in the Universe such that x !IN A.
"Difference" (aka: complement of B with respect to A)
"Identity Laws"
"Domination Laws"
"Idempotent Laws"
"Complementation Law"
"Commutative Laws"
"Associative Laws"
"Distributive Laws"
"De Morgan's Laws" proof of the second
"Absorption Laws"
"Complement Laws"
One way to prove an identity is to show that each is a subset of the other.
"Membership Table"
"Function" (many to one relation)
"Range": What you actually map to
"Codomain": What you can map to
"Image"
"Preimage"
range v. codomain
"Injective Function": one-to-one
"Surjective Function": iff every element in B has a preimage.
"Bijective Function": iff it is injective AND surjective
"Composition" like the Chain Rule from Calculus

:: 1203-01-13 ::
Functions v. Relations
A function from set A to Set B may be repressented as a set of ordered pairs where one element of each pair is drawn from the domain, and the other from the co-domain.
A function can be injective (1-1), surjective (onto), or bijective (invertible).
A relation on a set S may be thought of as a subset of S cross-product S.
"Partial Order": A relation which is Reflexive, Anti-symetric, Transitive.
A relation R on S can be empty, and the set S can be empty.
Binary Relation: A binary relation R from set A to set B is a subset R [...] A cross B. A binary rrelation R on a sset A is a subset of A cross A or a relation from A to A.
There will be 4 properties: Reflexive, Symmetric, Antisymettric, and Transitive.
"Reflexive Relation": A relation R on a set is reflexive iff "(a, a) taken-from-the-set R for every element a taken-from-the-set A." or "R is reflexive iff for all x taken from U, (x, x) is-taken-from-the-set R".
"Symmetric Relation": R is symmeetric iff (b,a) taken from the set Rr whenever (a,b) taken fromt he set R for all (a, b) taken from set A.
"Antisymmetric Relation": "A relation R on a set A such that for all (a, b) taken-from A, if (a, b) taken-from R and (b, a) taken-from R, then a = b" or "univ x univ y [(x, y) taken-from R conjunct (y, x) taken-from R, implies x = y]"
"Transitive Relation": "univ x univ y univ z[(x, y) takenfrom R conjunt R (y, z) takenfrom R implies (x, z) takenfrom R]
"Partial Ordering": A relation R on a set S is called a partial ordering or partial order if it si reflexive, antisymmetric, and transitive. A set together with a partial ordering R is called a partially ordered set or "poset", and is denoted by (S, R). Members of S are claled elements of the poset.
"Lattice": ...
"Poset": Partially Ordered Set

:: 1203-01-15 ::
Propositions v. Predicates
A Propositions may be either True of False.
Propositional Equivalences.
Key Logical Equivalences (need the rest from slides):
Identity: p^T == p, p v F == p
Domination Laws:	p v T == T,	p ^ F == F
Idempotent laws:	p v p == p,	p ^ p == p
Double Negation Law:	!(!p)
