:: 1203-01-07 ::
Class overview and available resources.
4430 and 5430 are the sections for the course (I am in 4430); no practical difference within the class, though.
"DBMS": Database Management Software
"Database"
We are not concerned with the content of the database: only the structure. DBMS is the software which is used to manage the database. From now on, when we talk about a database, we are talking about the DBMS, not the content.
Databases are everywhere.
"IDG": International Data Group
Most CS Jobs are DB related.
The job of a computer is to keep a record of history.
using: "MySQL", though HW assignments can be done in any ORM DBMS.
using: Whatever language we want, but Java is the default for this class.
this class: How to Use a Database System (DBMS): Theory, SQL, data model, application development, database design, XML.

:: 1203-01-09 ::
Uses: Web Searching, Data Mining, Scientific and Medical Databases, Integrating Information
Databases are the only areas yet found in which Turing-completness is not required for a language to make sense. Succinct programming, but subject to query optimization problems.
SQL is very specialized.
Databases often suffers from "Concurrency Control Problems" whenat two or more actions conflict and need to be resolved.
The OS mangages computer resources and provides a common environment for programs to be written for. The OS is applications on the kernel, which is on the CPU, the Memory, and the Devices.
Databases provide Data Independence, Security, Concurrency Resolution, Backup/Recoverery, and Easy CRUD with SQL.
"Data Model": Mathematical Representation of Data, Operations on Data, Constraints
The Relational Data Model is the most commonly-used model.
The Relational Model is a table. The table has a name: the Relation Name. The Column headers are Attributes, the rows are Tuples.
Table == Relation in this class.

:: 1203-01-12 ::
"Set": unordered series of elements without duplicates.
"List": ordered series of elements.
"Bag" (Multi-set): unordered series of elements.
"Attribute": Atomic Value
"Tuple": a List of Attribute Values.
"Relation": a Set of Tuples.
"Atomic": unbreakable.
"Relation Schema": Relation name and attribute list. Optionally types of attributes.
"Database": collection of relations
"Database Schema": ...
Relations are  a very simple model and often matches how we intuit about data, also the basis of SQL.
Example:	Beers(*name, manf)
		Bars(*name, addr, license)
		Drinkers(*name, addr, phone)
		Likes(*drinker, *beer)
		Sells(*bar, *beer, price)
		Frequents(*drinker, *bar)
		(* == key)
SQL is primarily a query language, for getting information from a database, but it also inludes a "data-definition" component for describing database schema.
"SQL-1"
"SQL-2"
"SQL-3"
"DBQL"
"DDL"
"DML"
Creating (Declaring) a Relation: "CREATE TABLE <name> (<list of elements>);
Deleting a Relation: "DROP TABLE <name>;
The most basic element is an attribute and its type.
The most commont types are INT/INTEGER, REAL/FLOAT, CHAR(n) (string of n characters), VARCHAR(n) (variable-length string of up to n characters)
Example:	CREATE TABLE Sells (
			bar	CHAR(20),
			beer	VARCHAR(20),
			price	REAL
		);
Integers and reals are represented as you would expect; strings require single quotes. Any variable can take the value of NULL. It is not the same as empty string.
Two single quotes make a single real quote.
DATE and TIME are types in SQL. The form of a date value is "DATA 'yyyy-mm-dd'"

:: 1203-01-14 ::
No upper limit to "n" for CHAR and VARCHAR in the standard.
Data Type: "DATETIME" local time.
Data Type: "TIMESTAMP" UTC time.
Primary Keys
Unique Keys
Single Attribute Keys:
		CREATE TABLE Beers {
			name	CHAR(20) UNIQUE,
			manf	CHAR(20)
		};
Multiattribute Keys:
		CREATE TABLE Sells {
			bar	CHAR(20),
			beer	VARCHAR(20)
			price	REAL,
			PRIMARY KEY (bar, beer)
		};
Only one "PRIMARY KEY" per table. Once a attribute has been declared as part of the primary key, it is required to have a value.
No limit to the number of "UNIQUE" keywords per table. Null value is admissable.
Semistructured Data: A data model based on trees with the goal of providing a flexible representation of data and enabling the sharing of documents among systems and databases.
Relational Algebra: Basic Operations; Algebra of Bags
Example Tables (many-to-many relationship) ("*" for a key):
	Students(*WIN, FN, LN, ADDRESS, ...)
	Courses(*CID, NAME, HOURS)
	Enrolled (*WIN, *CID, GRADE)
5 Basic Operations:
	Selection: sigma_theta R, where R is a set of tuples, theta operateson R and returns true or false.
	Projection: pi_A,B R
	Product: R x S
	Union: R union S
	Difference: R - S
3 Derived Operations:
	Intersection: R intersect S == R - (R - S)
	Join: R |><|_theta S == sigma_theta (R x S)
